![](RackMultipart20210527-4-be7gta_html_44f138ac10556814.gif)

# **Fresh**

# **Express**

## **Amazon HackOn submission for team CodingAlphas**

30th MAY 2021

 # Introduction & Background

After the immense success of [<u>Flex</u>](https://flex.amazon.in/) &
[<u>IHS</u>](https://ihs.mobinius.com/website/) programmes in India we
are happy to announce the launch of a fresh new idea which can
supposedly change the lives of millions of people in India -
**FreshExpress.** This is our unique take on the much touted
**Hyperlocal** delivery model which can save Amazon a lot of money in
terms of revenue and shipping costs. Last mile delivery, also known as
last mile logistics, is the transportation of goods from a distribution
hub to the final delivery destination — the door of the customer. The
goal of last mile delivery logistics is to deliver the packages as
affordably, quickly and accurately as possible.The last mile of your
product’s delivery accounts for more than **53%** of the total shipping
costs. Given that the vast majority of deliveries are small packages,
these numbers reflect small parcels rather than large cargo.

The hyperlocal marketplace as the name suggests is a market that caters
to the needs of a limited geographical area. A walk around your
residence would most definitely make you come across a similar market,
however big or small but self-sufficient in its own right, fulfilling
almost all the requirements of the local residents. The USP of
hyperlocal e-commerce businesses lies in their ability to deliver
products and services at unbelievably fast speed. With the
implementation of our model any business can accelerate their growth by
using the following features.

1.  Auto-detection of customer’s location

2.  Shipment scheduling

3.  Product filtering based on location

4.  Automatic shop suggestion based on unique recommendation engine

The objective of this model is to locate a source providing the best
overall value to the customer at the least possible time.By fixing the
price of the products in hyperlocal “stores” defined in a given
geographic region Amazon can benefit from the program by reducing the
“last-mile” delivery costs to a fraction of the previous amount while at
the same time gaining new customers by providing a fast,efficient and
streamlined delivery system.

# 

# Business Model & Proposals

The following Business model & Requirements apply to this Proposal:

There are two components of a business model — qualitative and
quantitative. Let us begin by looking into its ***qualitative*** aspects:

**Value Proposition :** The fundamental proposition of the company to
the various stakeholders is simple and may be described as follows :

1.  **User --** The service offers convenience of saving time by
    delivering the items in the shortest possible amount of time.It
    also offers a plethora of options to choose from the hyperlocal
    market.

2.  **Store --** Increased sales due to higher discoverability &
    visibility amongst the densely populated residential areas along
    with better mapping and management of inventory. Amazon also
    provides credit and advisory services to help these “Amazon”
    stores. Local “Amazon” stores affiliated with “Amazon” at every
    nook and corner of the locality.

3.  **Runner --** Works as pleases for some extra monthly income. Is
    always tied up with a local store. ”Amazon
    [<u>Flex</u>](https://flex.amazon.in/)” service & “Amazon prime”
    1-day guaranteed delivery as backup in case of unique product
    items not available in any of the hyperlocal stores.

4.  **Investors --** FreshExpress becomes a ‘SuperApp’ solely owned by
    “Amazon” and controls most of the online market harnessing the
    power of data & technology to further improve/expand the business.
    The last mile delivery problem for the investor is solved along
    with some extra income in the range of (**5-10%**) per transaction
    which can be charged from the Stores for using their provided
    services and app.

**Market Opportunity :** The market size in India for online grocery is
currently just [<u>0.2% of the overall grocery market and is expected to
touch
1.2%</u>](https://www.livemint.com/industry/retail/india-s-online-grocery-retail-market-to-touch-10-5-billion-by-2023-redseer-11572008045038.html)
of the overall by 2023. There are several possible reasons for this. One
is the definition of the market. Hyperlocal today encompasses more
markets than it did earlier in 2015. Second is the expansion of the
market. Newer ideas such as medicine delivery, homecare services and
particularly micro delivery(Milk and other essentials) have seen
exponential growth in terms of the number of users. Users of these
services can prove to be stickier than those of food delivery and
ride-hailing.

**Market Dynamics :** The demand side for the applications composed of
its paying customers. They would like to order
grocery/cosmetics/electronics items and goods. The supply side however
comprises a 3-sided marketplace consisting of Kirana/Mall/Shop who is
the provider of the service & goods whereas the delivery personnel owned
by the Kirana/Mall/Shop connects the provider to the customer. On
expansion of this model to use cases other than food/grocery anybody can
become a provider/runner. Continuous promotion of this model and primary
network effect would lead to more local stores to be available in any
locality providing “Amazon” with more revenue per se.

A few **quantitative** aspects of this model are as follows :

**Revenue Streams :** Income for hyperlocal delivery companies usually
comes from merchant commissions and delivery fees from customers.
Further, depending on the type of product offerings, such as in the case
of subscriptions in the microdelivery segment, revenue streams may vary.
Commissions fall in the sub 10% range for grocery delivery companies and
can be between 10% and 15% for electronics goods providing companies.
Amazon can also make money from brand advertisements displayed on their
apps.

**Cost Structures :** The cost structure generally tends to be variable.
These are usually the consequences that stem from the choices the
management makes. Paying per delivery may help on-boarding runners but
is not sustainable in the long run and can severely impact the unit
economics. Rather, paying for timed slots would change the cost
structure to fixed and can improve profitability as the business
scales.This needs to be discussed with store owners as they will be the
sole decision makers for the delivery part of the service.Surprise
quality inspections has to be made on local stores to check the quality
of products being sold in stores. With our unique **rating &
recommendation** system a point based approach will be awarded to the
shops so that the quality of the product and the services are maintained
beforehand.Training costs for “runner” has to be borne by Amazon.

**Societal & Economic impacts : [<u>Jeff Bezos says Amazon will invest
$1 billion in digitising Small and Medium Businesses (SMBs) in
India</u>](https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/technology/timeline-amazons-india-journey-under-jeff-bezos/articleshow/80670696.cms?from=mdr#:~:text=July%202014%3A%20Jeff%20Bezos%20says,e%2Dcommerce%20business%20in%20India.&text=February%202016%3A%20Amazon%20launches%20its,Amazon%20Fresh%20in%20August%202019.)**.
With the advent of this model, the Micro Small & Medium Enterprises
(MSMEs) & Small & Medium Business(SMBs) will benefit a lot. Every small
business can be a part of a big brand as “Amazon” and every runner will
be provided with a part-time and full-time income. Local entrepreneurs
not only know their neighborhoods very well, but also enjoy the goodwill
of their communities. This makes them an excellent choice as local
delivery persons & store keepers especially within small localities.
This will attract store owners to earn an extra income over and above
their primary income. Moreover this will help small towns and cities
where Amazon warehouses are still not available and the cost of
delivering items is still huge. This model will save huge costs for the
company and will provide a medium for the small/medium storekeepers to
earn an extra source of income above and beyond their usual means. The
“runners” will also be provided with training and education along with
customary rewards for their service to this programme.

# 

# Project Description

## The purpose of this project is as follows:

1.  Conversion from Unorganized retailing to organized retailing

2.  Connecting all the local stores via digital plattform

3.  Reducing the latent distance between the sellers and buyers .

4.  Facilitating easier and hassle-free replacement and alteration of
    products

## The components of the project is as follows:

1.  Customer-Facing Application

2.  Store-Keeper Facing Application

3.  Recommendation Engine

4.  [<u>GeoHashed</u>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geohash)
    distributed database according to the locality

# 

# Project Scope

This project is based on a hyperlocal delivery model.It can be defined
as an online business model in which the on demand needs of a customer
are met through local offline shops via a digital plattform . The demand
for goods and services of customers like grocery ,local items (small
items ),Kirana shops,Local items are met instantly without going there.

This model is built using the django framework with a database as
cockroach db so that clients can access data from anywhere . The
cockroach database is a distributed database with standard SQL

This model helps the customer to deliver the products in the shortest
time possible.

## The criteria set forth below should be met to achieve successful completion of the project:

1.  Customer can order products without any problem

2.  Stores can register and list their inventory online

3.  Delivery of products should be within expected time delivery

4.  Nearest shop is selected resulting in low waiting period time

5.  In case of unavailability of items,orders should be fulfilled via
    flexible delivery

## Acceptance of the work is contingent on the following acceptance criteria:

1.  \[CRITERIA 1\]

2.  \[CRITERIA 2\]

3.  \[CRITERIA 3\]

4.  \[CRITERIA 4\]

5.  \[CRITERIA 5\]

# 

# Project Timelines

## The Project timeline is as follows:

| Request for Proposal Issuance                  | 17/05/2021 |
|------------------------------------------------|------------|
| DataBase Design Finalized                      | 18/05/2021 |
| Cockroach Database Connection Established      | 19/05/2021 |
| Recommendation Engine Established              | 22/05/2021 |
| Functionalities added for 1st stable prototype | 24/05/2021 |
| Minor Bug Fixes & Functionalities Improvement  | 28/05/2021 |
| Client Project Delivery                        | 30/05/2021 |
| Client Project Demo                            | 11/06/2021 |

The need-date for project completion is 30th May 2021. Judges may
propose a date earlier or later, and work has to be ramped up
accordingly.

# 

# Budget

\[COMPANY NAME\]’s budget for the project is \[DOLLAR AMOUNT\].

# 

# Evaluation Factors

Logistics, as the backbone of the e-commerce industry needs to be
optimal in order for the industry to thrive and grow. In India people
tend to buy many items from local grocery stores and stores . Meeting
the needs of a customer by providing products and services within 1hr.

Local retailers and stores collaborating with online platforms to employ
hyperlocal strategy would help their business. A hyperlocal strategy
would bring considerable improvements to the aspect of rapid delivery.

Hyperlocal strategy can be a key differentiator and driver for
businesses. It has the potential to bring more local clients to local
stores and dramatically reduce inventory and logistics expenses of
online shopping platforms.

It also has a considerable appeal to consumers given the possibility of
unforeseen reduction in delivery times

Many of the options were developed in the past such as last mile
delivery,crowd shipping but none were completely helpful. Connecting
local stores with the online platform and expanding their business would
increase their business sles and also helps to connect every store
globally .

\[COMPANY NAME\] will rate proposals based on the following factors,
with cost being the most important factor:

1.  Responsiveness to the requirements set forth in this Request for
    Proposal

2.  Relevant past performance/experience

3.  Samples of work

4.  Cost, including an assessment of total cost of ownership.

5.  Technical expertise/experience of bidder and bidder’s staff

\[COMPANY NAME\] reserves the right to award to the bidder that presents
the best value to \[COMPANY NAME\] as determined solely by \[COMPANY
NAME\] in its absolute discretion.

<img src="media/image1.png" style="width:4.71875in;height:3.83333in" /><img src="media/image2.png" style="width:6.17708in;height:4.11979in" />

# 

# Active Issues

1.  Heroku application deployment times out at
     **[<u>30secs.</u>](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/request-timeout)**
     In local deployment the timeout can be fixed to **2-5 minutes**
     which is the practical time for a shopkeeper to accept an order in
     an ideal scenario.The range can be made flexible accordingly.
     **Possible Resolutions** : Moving the application to
     [<u>AWS</u>](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/elb-idle-timeout-control/#:~:text=In%20order%20to%20better%20support,through%20the%20AWS%20Management%20Console.)
     where the timeout can be maintained in a range of 1-3600 secs
     which is practical for our intended scenarios.

2.  “Get your location” button in the homepage is not working . The
     button takes user location through HTML Geolocation API and prints
     in the console. For our test scenario we have defined an ideal
     region in the [<u>map</u>](https://goo.gl/maps/7RMfRBFCAozMq93a9)
     with 12 nearby shops. **Possible Resolutions :** Once the
     prototype is successfully implemented and business data is
     collected this model can be extended and implemented to every
     location in any region in India. The user location will then be
     stored into a database for further processing by the
     recommendation engine.

# 

# Future Plans

1.  Drone Based Delivery Subsystem using Amazon Air.

2.  Use of the existing transportation systems to facilitate faster
    deliveries.

3.  Amazon Pay payment integration for faster checkouts and payment
    processing.

4.  Amazon Flex integration with the existing application.
